---
title: "Lee_2016"
---

Lee, Alexander E. G., James P. Ounsley, Tim Coulson, J. Marcus Rowcliffe, and Guy Cowlishaw. 2016. “Information Use and Resource Competition: An Integrative Framework.” _Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences_ 283 (1825): 20152550. [https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2015.2550](https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2015.2550).

---

### Strategies

### Frequency dependence

### Payoffs
[finders_share](../topics/finders_share.md)

### Penalties

### Availability
Individuals can search for resources alone or by using social information

### Resources
Depletion rate

### Risks

### Conditions

### Access
Social rank

### Focus
Developed a model to demonstrate how competition can facilitate or constrain an individual's ability to use information when acquiring resources, considering resource distribution

### Outcome
Increasing the producer's resource discovery rate reduced the relative cost of solitary foraging. If patches were easy to find and individuals were unable to monopolize resources, scrounging became less common. Under conditions of strong monopolization and intermediate discovery rates, higher levels of scrounging occurred

Two main predictions: 1 The effects of resource scarcity on social information use should depend on resource monopolizability. 2 The potential benefits of social [dominance](../topics/dominance.md) should be closely linked to social information use in uncertain environments. 

There are constrains that competition imposes on an individual's ability to use social information to access resources. When resources are monopolizable, social information use may become exclusive to dominant individuals leading to a positive relationship between social rank and resource acquisition rate.  

Selection pressures on [dominance](../topics/dominance.md) will depend on multidimensional aspects of resources eg. scarcity, depletion rate and monopolizability

